#summary Why this "OSMBonusPack", and the features it provides.

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Introduction =
osmdroid is an opensource library which provides a simple and efficient way to port an Android application from Google Maps to OpenStreetMap. 

osmdroid provides:
  * the map tiles (MapView) and the usual zoom/pan tools (MapController)
  * the standard overlays (ItemizedOverlay, MyLocationOverlay,...)
  * and some additional overlays (MinimapOverlay, PathOverlay,...)

However, nowadays, for modern map-based applications, we want more!
So, here comes OSMBonusPack. 


= Routes and Directions = 
Probably the most desired feature. 
OSMBonusPack provides a set of classes to get routes, with turn-by-turn information and route shape:

[Tutorial_1 RoadManagers] retrieve roads from a variety of service providers. Currently supported: 
  * *MapQuestRoadManager* using [http://open.mapquestapi.com/guidance/ MapQuest Open Guidance] service
  * and *OSRMRoadManager*, using [http://project-osrm.org/ OSRM] service. 

Result is a *Road* object, containing: 
  * the road shape, as a list of GeoPoint => RoadManager can build an osmdroid PathOverlay from this road shape, ready-to-display. 
  * turn-by-turn information, as a list of RoadNode

Also provided, very useful route-related utilities: 
  * *PolylineEncoder*, a polyline encoder/decoder
  * *DouglasPeuckerReducer*, a polyline reducer based on Douglas-Peucker algorithm. 


= Markers with cartoon-bubble =
The [Tutorial_0 Marker] overlay mimics as much as possible its Google Maps V2 equivalent. 

It supports the now classical "cartoon-bubble" or *InfoWindow*. 
Two standard bubble layouts are provided in the demo application, each one with its NinePatch background. You can use your own, and contributors are strongly encouraged to share some nice alternatives... 

This *Marker* also supports drag events, transparency, rotation, and so on. 

= Polygon, Polyline, !GroundOverlay, !FolderOverlay =

The [Tutorial_5 Polygon] overlay mimics as much as possible its Google Maps V2 equivalent. 
This *Polygon* overlay also supports cartoon-bubble (something not available in Google Maps V2). 

The *Polyline* overlay and [Tutorial_5 GroundOverlay] also mimic their Google Maps V2 equivalents. 

The *FolderOverlay* has no Google Maps counterpart. It is a container for other overlays. It can contain any Overlay object - including other FolderOverlays. 
It is perfect for managing easily logical groups of overlays - for instance a list of Markers - without adding dedicated lists or HashMaps in your code, as usually needed when using Google Maps V2 API. 

= Marker Clustering =
Marker Clustering is the now classical solution to the "Too Many Markers Problem". 

[Tutorial_3 GridMarkerClusterer] displays all Markers which are close together as a single icon - adapting the clustering to the zoom level. 

It has been designed to be as simple to use as possible. Basically, you just have to create a GridMarkerClusterer, add it to your map overlays, and put your Markers inside. 

You can easily customize its look&feel (cluster icon, cluster size, text style and positionning,...). 


= Points Of Interest - POIs =
[Tutorial_2 POIProviders] retrieve POI from a variety of service providers. 
Currently supported: 
 * *NominatimPOIProvider*, to retrieve OpenStreetMap "features"
 * *GeoNamesPOIProvider*, using [http://www.geonames.org/export/wikipedia-webservice.html GeoNames Wikipedia] service, retrieving Wikipedia geolocalized entries
 * *FlickrPOIProvider* and *PicasaPOIProvider*, using Flickr and Picasa services to search among the billions of Flickr and Picasa photos and retrieve geolocalized photos for an area. 

Result is a list of *POI* objects containing the position of the POI, and POI information. 

= Geocoding and Reverse Geocoding =
Android provides the [http://developer.android.com/reference/android/location/Geocoder.html Geocoder] class. BUT... according to Google Maps APIs Terms of Service, it can only be used in relation with a Google map. 
(see https://developers.google.com/maps/terms, item (g): No Use of Content without a Google Map)

If you are using osmdroid, you are probably not displaying a Google map. 

So, OSMBonusPack provides *GeocoderNominatim* class, which accesses to a Nominatim service: 
 * either the standard OpenStreetMap [http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Nominatim Nominatim] service
 * or the Nominatim service hosted by [http://developer.mapquest.com/web/products/open/nominatim/ MapQuest]
 * or any other Nominatim-compliant service (your own installation for example). 
Migrating from Android Geocoder is a simple change of class name. 

WARNING: The relevance of Nominatim service is far behind Google Geocoding service. Results are sometimes quite surprising, and there is few support for misspelling (e.g. searching for a "Mozar street", you will not find any "Mozart street"). Take this aspect into account before providing a real-life service. 

= Map events handling = 
[Tutorial_5 MapEventsOverlay and MapEventsReceiver] classes provide a simple way to handle single-press and long-press events somewhere on the map. 

Example: long-press on the map to define the destination, a new POI,... 


= KML and GeoJSON support =
[Tutorial_4 KmlDocument and KmlFeature] are the major building blocks to load KML/KMZ and GeoJSON content, to build corresponding overlays, to convert overlays as KML content, and to save KML and GeoJSON documents locally. 

Refer to the [KML KML wiki page] and [GeoJSON GeoJSON wiki page] for more details. 

= Next steps = 
 * See HowToInclude the lib in your project
 * Follow the [Tutorial_0 Tutorials]
 * Look at (or checkout) [https://code.google.com/p/osmbonuspack/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2FOSMNavigator OSMNavigator source] to see how to use these classes in common use cases
 * Download the javadoc to get detailed information on the API. 