#summary How to install the OSMBonusPack lib in your project.

= Prerequisites =
You should be familiar with Android SDK. 

In the explanations, we assume that you are using Eclipse, and that you have an Android project created. 

= First steps =
First of all, you must include osmdroid library in your Android project. 
Refer to [http://code.google.com/p/osmdroid/ osmdroid] documentation. 

OSMBonusPack v2.x jars are based on osmdroid v3.0.8. 

Take care to:
 * put osmdroid.jar in a "libs" directory
 * configure the Build Path of your project so that osmdroid.jar appears in the "Referenced Libraries"
 * set-up the required permissions in your AndroidManifest.xml

Done? OK. So, there are 2 ways to include OSMBonusPack, each one with pros and cons. 


= 1. Simple way - Including osmbonuspack.jar =
Download the latest version of osmbonuspack.jar

Copy it in the "libs" directory of your project, with osmdroid.jar. 

Right-click on the project, "Build Path", "Configure Build Path...", "Add JARs...". 

Select osmbonuspack.jar in libs, and click OK. 
It's added to the "Referenced Libraries", ready-to-use. 

If you want to use some default OSMBonusPack resources, browse the source, go to trunk/OSMBonusPackDemo and download in your project resources the following files:
 * For a white bubble:
   * drawable-mpi/bonuspack_bubble.9.png
   * layout/bonuspack_bubble.xml
 * For a dark-grey bubble:
   * drawable-mpi/bonuspack_bubble_black.9.png
   * layout/bonuspack_bubble_black.xml
 * For the "more info" button:
   * drawable/btn_moreinfo.xml
   * drawable-mpi/moreinfo_arrow.png
   * drawable-mpi/moreinfo_arrow_pressed.png

= 2. Set-up OSMBonusPack as an Android library project = 
Checkout OSMBonusPack project from the SVN repository and set it up as an "Android library" project in your Eclipse workspace. 
Then, in the properties of your application project, in the Android section, add OSMBonusPack as a library. 