#summary BonusPack Tutorial #0: How to start - using Markers.

Note: sources of these tutorials can be found in the [http://code.google.com/p/osmbonuspack/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2FOSMBonusPackTuto OSMBonusPackTuto] project. But of course and as usual, we strongly recommend that you follow the tutorials, and build the code yourself. 


= Important note =
For clarity and simplicity, in these tutorials, we do all API calls in the main thread. 

Normally, for network calls, this is not recommended at all: we should use threads and asynchronous tasks. 
Even worst, since Honeycomb SDK (3.0), it is not allowed to make a network call in the main thread (thanks to the "StrictMode.ThreadPolicy" default settings, a NetworkOnMainThreadException exception will be raised). 

So:
 # For these tutorials, target an SDK earlier than 3.0
 # Once you have played with the tutos and want to work on your real app, have a look at the OSMBonusPackDemo source code, where network calls are done in async tasks. 


= Introduction =
Let's start with a super-simple Android application using osmdroid, and displaying a map in an activity. Typically, that:

{{{
public class MainActivity extends Activity {

    @Override public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
        setContentView(R.layout.main);
        MapView map = (MapView) findViewById(R.id.map);
        map.setTileSource(TileSourceFactory.MAPNIK);
	map.setBuiltInZoomControls(true);
	map.setMultiTouchControls(true);

        GeoPoint startPoint = new GeoPoint(48.13, -1.63);
        IMapController mapController = map.getController();
	mapController.setZoom(9);
        mapController.setCenter(startPoint);
    }
}
}}}


= 0. Using the Marker overlay =
As we will make a large usage of OSMBonusPack Marker in those tutorials, let's start with a quick presentation. 

First of all, you MUST put in your project res directory all resources needed for the default InfoWindow or "bubble": 
 * in your res/layout: bonuspack_bubble.xml
 * in res/drawable-mpi: 
  * bonuspack_bubble.9.png
  * moreinfo_arrow.png
  * moreinfo_arrow_pressed.png
 * in res/drawable: btn_moreinfo.xml
You will find all those resources in [http://code.google.com/p/osmbonuspack/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2FOSMBonusPackDemo%2Fres OSMBonusPackDemo res directory]. Just copy/paste them in your own project. 

Now, back to the code. We create a Marker, we screw it at the start point, we set its "anchor" at bottom-center, and we add this Marker to the map's overlays:
{{{
Marker startMarker = new Marker(map);
startMarker.setPosition(startPoint);
startMarker.setAnchor(Marker.ANCHOR_CENTER, Marker.ANCHOR_BOTTOM);
map.getOverlays().add(startMarker);
}}}

You will certainly notice that 2 Marker classes are available: one in osmdroid, and one in OSMBonusPack. Of course, you need to import the OSMBonusPack one: 
{{{
import org.osmdroid.bonuspack.overlays.Marker;
}}}

And we refresh the map. Yes, we will not repeat it everytime, but in order to see your changes, you need to refresh the map - this way:
{{{
map.invalidate();
}}}

Give it a try. You should see the default osmdroid marker icon. Clicking on it opens an empty cartoon-bubble. 

Now we can improve a little bit, changing the icon, and setting a title to be shown in the bubble:
{{{
startMarker.setIcon(getResources().getDrawable(R.drawable.ic_launcher));
startMarker.setTitle("Start point");
}}}

- And then? 

- Refresh the map!

- Okay, you got it. Now, let's start with really new stuff: routes and directions, in [Tutorial_1]